# 🧮 Problem: Count Partitions with Even Sum Difference

[Count Partitions with Even Sum Difference - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-partitions-with-even-sum-difference/)

**LeetCode 3432**

**Accuracy**: 72.8%

**Tags**: Array, Math, Prefix Sum

**Time**: 8 Minutes; 6/23/2025

---

### 🔗 Problem Description

You are given an integer array `nums` of length `n`.

A **partition** is defined as an index `i` where `0 <= i < n - 1`, splitting the array into two non-empty subarrays such that:

Left subarray contains indices `[0, i]`.
Right subarray contains indices `[i + 1, n - 1]`.
Return the number of partitions where the difference between the sum of the left and right subarrays is even.

**Example 1**
Input: nums = `[10,10,3,7,6]`
Output: `4`
Explanation:

`The 4 partitions are:`

- [10], [10, 3, 7, 6] with a sum difference of 10 - 26 = -16, which is even.
- [10, 10], [3, 7, 6] with a sum difference of 20 - 16 = 4, which is even.
- [10, 10, 3], [7, 6] with a sum difference of 23 - 13 = 10, which is even.
- [10, 10, 3, 7], [6] with a sum difference of 30 - 6 = 24, which is even.

---

### 🧠 My Thought Process

Avoiding for-loops and the creation of lists, I wanted to just keep track of the sums of both partitions through two variables: Lsum and Rsum. First, I calculate the sum of the right partition. As I traverse nums, I'll increase the sum of the left partition and decrease the value of the right partition. Then, I'll use the modulus operator to tell whether a number is even or odd.

---

### 🧪 Code (Java) [ACCEPTED]

```java
class Solution {
    public int countPartitions(int[] nums) {
        // Get sum of right subarray
        int Rsum = 0;
        for (int i : nums)
            Rsum -= i;
        // Get Partitions
        int Lsum = 0;
        int count = 0;
        for (int x = 0; x < nums.length - 1; x++) {
            Lsum += nums[x];
            Rsum += nums[x];
            if ((Lsum + Rsum) % 2 == 0)
                count++;
        }
        return count;
    }
}
```

--- 

### 🧠 Reflection

- I have one of the best Runtimes and Memory usage.
- I'm getting pretty good at coding for simple problems.
- I learned how to effectively split and traverse arrays.

