# 🧮 Problem: Insert Greatest Common Divisors in Linked List

[Greatest Common Divisors in Linked List - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/insert-greatest-common-divisors-in-linked-list/)

**LeetCode 2807**

**Accuracy**: 91.5%

**Tags**: Linked List, Math, Number Theory

**Time**: 7 Minutes; 6/18/2025

---

### 🔗 Problem Description

Given the head of a linked list head, in which each node contains an integer value.
Between every pair of adjacent nodes, insert a new node with a value equal to the greatest common divisor of them.
Return the linked list after insertion.
The greatest common divisor of two numbers is the largest positive integer that evenly divides both numbers.

**Example 1:**  
Input: `head = [18, 6, 10, 3]`  
Output: `[18,6,6,2,10,1,3]`  

Explanation: `The 1st diagram denotes the initial linked list and the 2nd diagram denotes the linked list after inserting the new nodes (nodes in blue are the inserted nodes).
- We insert the greatest common divisor of 18 and 6 = 6 between the 1st and the 2nd nodes.
- We insert the greatest common divisor of 6 and 10 = 2 between the 2nd and the 3rd nodes.
- We insert the greatest common divisor of 10 and 3 = 1 between the 3rd and the 4th nodes.
There are no more adjacent nodes, so we return the linked list.`

**Example 2:**  
Input: `head = [7]`  
Output: `[7]`

Explanation: `The 1st diagram denotes the initial linked list and the 2nd diagram denotes the linked list after inserting the new nodes.
There are no pairs of adjacent nodes, so we return the initial linked list.'

**Constraints**
- The number of nodes in the list is in the range [1, 5000].
- 1 <= Node.val <= 1000

---

### 🧠 My Thought Process

I started by writing a recursive method for calculating the GCD of two integers. Then, I needed to iterate through the linked list and between each pair of original ListNodes, where I would insert a new ListNode with the value of the GCD. I made sure to maintain the structure of the references so the list doesn't break after my work.

---

### 🧪 Code (Java)

```java
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * public class ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode next;
 *     ListNode() {}
 *     ListNode(int val) { this.val = val; }
 *     ListNode(int val, ListNode next) { this.val = val; this.next = next; }
 * }
 */
class Solution {
    public ListNode insertGreatestCommonDivisors(ListNode head) {
        ListNode root = head;
        ListNode current = head;
        // Between each ListNode in the original LinkedList, make a new ListNode.
        while (current.next != null) {
            current.next = new ListNode(GCD(current.val, current.next.val), current.next);
            current = current.next;
            current = current.next;
        }
        return root;
    }

    private int GCD(int a, int b) {
        if (b == 0) 
            return a;
        return GCD(b, a % b);
    }  
}

```

--- 

### 🧠 Reflection
- A lot of people used the same strategy as I did.
- I practiced how to properly manipulate Linked Lists.
- I learned how to use recursion effectively.


