# 🧮 Problem: Sorting the Sentence

[Sorting the Sentence - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/sorting-the-sentence/)

**LeetCode 1859**

**Accuracy**: 83.8%

**Tags**: Strings, Sorting

**Time**: 50 Minutes; 6/25/2025

---

### 🔗 Problem Description

A sentence is a list of words that are separated by a single space with no leading or trailing spaces. Each word consists of lowercase and uppercase English letters.

A sentence can be shuffled by appending the 1-indexed word position to each word then rearranging the words in the sentence.

- For example, the sentence `"This is a sentence"` can be shuffled as `"sentence4 a3 is2 This1"` or `"is2 sentence4 This1 a3"`.

Given a shuffled sentence `s` containing no more than `9` words, reconstruct and return the  original sentence.

**Example 1:**  

Input: `s = "Myself2 Me1 I4 and3"`  
Output: `"Me Myself and I"`
Explanation: `Sort the words in s to their original positions "Me1 Myself2 and3 I4", then remove the numbers.`

---

### 🧠 My Thought Process

If I wanted to manipulate the string, I want to convert the String `s` into a `String[]` array. Then, looking at the numbers at the end of each String in `String[]` array, I would put them in another `String[]` array but in their correct positions. Afterward, I want to combine everything together. 

---

### 🧪 Code (Java) [ACCEPTED]

```java
class Solution {
    public String sortSentence(String s) {
        String[] temp = s.split(" "); // Turn the string into a String Array
        String[] result = new String[temp.length]; // Converted Array
        // Traverse String Array temp
        for (int i = 0; i < temp.length; i++) {
            String lastStr = temp[i].substring(temp[i].length() - 1);
            int point = Integer.parseInt(lastStr) - 1;
            result[point] = temp[i].substring(0, temp[i].length() - 1);
        }
        // Combine everything
        StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();
        for (String str : result)
            sb.append(str + " ");
        return sb.deleteCharAt(sb.length() - 1).toString();
    }
}
```

--- 

### 🧠 Reflection

- I learned how to manipulate `String` and `StringBuilder` methods.
- I have seen people use a static method in the `String` class as a shortcut: String.join(CharSequence delimiter, CharSequence... elements).

`CharSequence` is an interface, which is implemented by `String` and `StringBuilder`. The three periods (`...`) represents variable arguments (varargs). For example, this methods uses varargs: `protected void EXAMPLE(String s, int... i) {}`. In general, it means that there can be infinite parameters.