# 🧮 Problem: Find the Original Typed String I

[find the Original Typed String I - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-original-typed-string-i/)

**LeetCode 3330**

**Accuracy**: 72.0%

**Tags**: String, Biweekly Contest 142

**Time**: 7/2/2025

---

### 🔗 Problem Description

Alice is attempting to type a specific string on her computer. However, she tends to be clumsy and may press a key for too long, resulting in a character being typed multiple times.

Although Alice tried to focus on her typing, she is aware that she may still have done this at most once.

You are given a string word, which represents the final output displayed on Alice's screen.

Return the total number of possible original strings that Alice might have intended to type.

**Example 1:**  
Input: "abbcccc" 
Output: 5
Explanation: The possible strings are: "abbcccc", "abbccc", "abbcc", "abbc", and "abcccc".

**Constraints**
- 1 <= word.length <= 100
- word only consists of lowercase English letters

---

### 🧠 My Thought Process

The question says that she may have pressed a key too long only for one time. I noticed, in the first example, that every possible string only had one 'a', which means distinct characters are intentionally made by Alice. Then, I noticed that there were four different amounts of 'c' in the possible strings and two different amounts of 'b'. Those numbers are tied to the number of times that they appear in the original typed string.

Going left to right, having searched for a pattern, I noticed that I can count the number of possibilities by using two pointers and adding one at the end.

---

### 🧪 Code (Java) [ACCEPTED]

```java
class Solution {
    public int possibleStringCount(String word) {
        if (word.length() == 1)
            return 1;
        // Setting Two Pointers
        int p = 0, q = p + 1;
        int sum = 0;
        char[] cc = word.toCharArray();
        while (q < cc.length) {
            if (cc[p] == cc[q])
                sum++;
            p++;
            q++;
        }
        return sum + 1;
    }
}
```


--- 

### 🧠 Reflection
- I don't have to use math to calculate possible combinations when coding.
- Using two pointers is definitely helpful.
